At about the age of twelve years, 
my mind become seriously impressed 
with regard to the all-important concerns for the welfare of my immortal soul,
which led me to searching the scriptures -believing,
as I was taught, 
that they contained the word of God and thus applying myself to them. 
My intimate acquaintance with those of different denominations led me to marvel exceedingly, 
for I discovered that they did not adorn their profession by a holy walk and godly conversation 
agreeable to what I found contained in that sacred depository. This was a grief to my soul.
Thus, from the age of twelve years to fifteen I pondered many things in my heart 
concerning the situation of the world of mankind, 
the contentions and divisions, the wickedness and abominations, and the darkness which pervaded the minds of mankind.
My mind became exceedingly distressed, for I became convicted of my sins, 
and by searching the scriptures I found that mankind did not come unto the Lord 
but that they had apostatized from the true and living faith, 
and there was no society or denomination that was built upon the gospel of Jesus Christ as recorded in the New Testament. 
I felt to mourn for my own sins and for the sins of the world, 
for I learned in the scriptures that 
God was the same yesterday, today, and forever, 
that he was no respecter of persons, for he was God.
For I looked upon the sun, the glorious luminary of the earth, 
and also the moon, rolling in their majesty through the heavens, 
and also the stars shining in their courses, 
and the earth also upon which I stood, 
and the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and the fish of the waters, 
and also man walking forth upon the face of the earth 
in majesty and in the strength of beauty, 
whose power and intelligence in governing the things which are so exceedingly great and marvelous, 
even in the likeness of him who created them. 
And when I considered upon these things, 
my heart exclaimed, 
"Well hath the wise man said, 'It is a fool that saith in his heart, there is no God.'" 
My heart exclaimed, "All, all these bear testimony and bespeak an omnipotent and omnipresent power, 
a being who maketh laws and decreeth and bindeth all things in their bounds, 
who filleth eternity, who was and is and will be from all eternity to eternity." 
And I considered all these things and that that being seeketh such to worship him as worship him in spirit and in truth.
Therefore, I cried unto the Lord for mercy, for there was none else to whom I could go and obtain mercy. 
And the Lord heard my cry in the wilderness, 
and while in the attitude of calling upon the Lord, 
in the sixteenth year of my age, 
a pillar of light above the brightness of the sun at noonday came down from above and rested upon me. 
I was filled with the spirit of God, and the Lord opened the heavens upon me and I saw the Lord.
And he spake unto me, saying, 
"Joseph, my son, thy sins are forgiven thee. 
Go thy way, walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments. 
Behold, I am the Lord of glory. 
I was crucified for the world, that all those who believe on my name may have eternal life. 
Behold, the world lieth in sin at this time, 
and none doeth good, no, not one. 
They have turned aside from the gospel and keep not my commandments. 
They draw near to me with their lips while their hearts are far from me. 
And mine anger is kindling against the inhabitants of the earth, 
to visit them according to their ungodliness 
and to bring to pass that which hath been spoken by the mouth of the prophets and apostles. 
Behold and lo, I come quickly, 
as it is written of me, 
in the cloud, clothed in the glory of my Father."
My soul was filled with love, 
and for many days I could rejoice with great joy. 
The Lord was with me, 
but I could find none that would believe the heavenly vision. 
Nevertheless, I pondered these things in my heart.